.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Mattia Cabrini
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-only

.TH piece 3 2025-09-22 "CMC-Chess Source Code Man-Pages pre-release"

.SH NAME
piece, piece_t, turn_t \- Constants and data types to represent pieces and turn.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.Bd
\fB#include "piece.h"\fP
.Ed

.EX
.B typedef myin8_t piece_t
.B typedef piece_t turn_t

.B #define cpEEMPTY ((piece_t)0)
.B #define cpWPAWN ((piece_t)1)
.B #define cpWROOK ((piece_t)2)
.B #define cpWKNIGHT ((piece_t)3)
.B #define cpWBISHOP ((piece_t)4)
.B #define cpWQUEEN ((piece_t)5)
.B #define cpWKING ((piece_t)6)
.B #define cpBPAWN ((piece_t)(-1))
.B #define cpBROOK ((piece_t)(-2))
.B #define cpBKNIGHT ((piece_t)(-3))
.B #define cpBBISHOP ((piece_t)(-4))
.B #define cpBQUEEN ((piece_t)(-5))
.B #define cpBKING ((piece_t)(-6))

.B extern const turn_t cpWTURN;
.B extern const turn_t cpBTURN;

.B extern const char* cpWHITES;
.B extern const char* cpBLACKS;

.B extern char piece_to_char(piece_t p);

.SH DESCRIPTION

.TP
.B piece_t
A data type that represent a chess piece (a rook, a knight, ...) and its colour. The color is defined by the sign of piece_t: <0 means BLACK; >0 means WHITE. The actual datatype is a signed 8 bit integer, as it is sufficient to store all possible combinations of pieces and colours. The value 0 indicates an empty cell.

.TP
.B turn_t
A data type identical to piece_t that represents the turn.

.TP
.B cpW.....
A definition for a WHITE piece.
.TP
.B cpB.....
A definition for a BLACK piece.
.TP
.B cpEEMPTY
A definition to represent an empty cell.

.TP
.B cpWTURN
Represents the WHITE turn and it is the same as ~cpBTURN.
.TP
.B cpBTURN
Represents the BLACK turn and it is the same as ~cpWTURN.

.TP
.B cpWHITES
.nf
An array of const characters are used to print a chess WHITE piece. A piece character shall be retrieved as:
cpWHITES[cpW.....]
.TP
.B cpWHITES
.nf
An array of const characters are used to print a chess BLACK piece. A piece character shall be retrieved as:
cpWHITES[cpW.....]

.TP
.B char piece_to_char(piece_t p)
Converts
.I p
to a character using
.B cpWHITES
and
.B cpBLACKS
as described above.

.SH SEE ALSO

.B cmc-chess(6)
